# COVID19-Effect-on-Travel

W203 (Summer 2021) Final Project with Erick Martinez and Ricollis Jones

Tourism is one of the biggest industries in the United States. In 2019, it supported 15.8 million jobs and generated $2.6 billion dollars. However, the COVID-19 pandemic disrupted what would have been lucrative spring and summer 2020 vacation seasons, with most of the country encouraged to socially distance, wear mask, and stay at home as much as possible. Because COVID-19 spreads very easily via respiratory droplets and infect victims asymptomatically, many people sacrificed the desire to congregate in large groups in order to keep their loved ones safe, especially those who were high-risk. Thus, leisure and travel plummeted in 2020. Travel spending in 2020 fell a record 42% from 2019 and resulted in $426 billion in cumulative losses to the travel economy.

The goal of our project is to research the effect that the COVID-19 pandemic had on the number of vacations taken. More specifically, we want to look at how states’ performance and actions against the pandemic affected their constituent’s propensity to travel. We would want to find if a state’s characteristics and performance against COVID-19 changed the way its population traveled for leisure and/or vacation, or even if those variables even mattered in the way the population wanted to travel. Our dependent variable of interest here is the number of trips on average for leisure and/or vacation per capita. Here, we are assuming that a trip traveled greater than 250 miles in any mode of transportation. We are also limiting the timeframe to the Spring 2021 season (March 1st, 2021 to May 31st, 2021) to account for the widespread availability of the COVID-19 vaccine and state governments’ decision to lift mandates meant to limit the spread of COVID-19.

